# purlpal
Multimodal Knitting Pattern Tracker

## To Run

1. Start MongoDB using shell command mongod
2. Navigate to the PurlPal folder and install dependencies with npm install
3. Start the server with npm start
4. View the app at localhost:3000
Note: A lot of the initial database setup is performed when the browser tries to access resources and finds that they don't exist yet - if the first load is wonky, wait a minute and reload. All resources should be available by that point.

## Guide to the code

- app/ Scaffolding for server-side rendering in React. Largely not in use, primarily template code.
- controllers/ Handlers for database requests. controllers/pattern.js handles pattern fetching.
- models/ Data models & database methods.
- public/js/ This is the meat of the code.
- - formatPatternForDisplay.js contains helper methods for creating the pattern tables in HTML.
- - loadPatternClientSide.js handles the visual interface setup and provides methods for navigation.
- - leap.js handles the motion tracking.
- - speech.js handles the speech recognition (and formats the sidebar).
- - setupSpeech.js sets up the speech recognition tech and is largely borrowed from the Battleship assignment.
- public/resources/testPatterns.js contains sample input of what patterns look like before they are imported to the internal database representation
- test/server/models contains unit tests for data models & database methods. Other test folders are scaffolding from MegaBoilerPlate.
- views/layouts/main.handlebars is the main file loaded in server-side rendering, which I build off of for the current client-side rendering format. 


## Mega Boilerplate App (Node.js)

Generated by http://megaboilerplate.com

### Configuration
- **Platform:** node
- **Framework**: express
- **Template Engine**: handlebars
- **CSS Framework**: bootstrap
- **CSS Preprocessor**: css
- **JavaScript Framework**: react
- **Build Tool**: webpack
- **Unit Testing**: mocha
- **Database**: mongodb
- **Authentication**: email,facebook,google,twitter
- **Deployment**: heroku

### License
The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2016 Sahat Yalkabov

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
